HAMMER & VANE - FINE ART AUCTIONEERS
Systems Brief for the Saleroom Linking Project

THE SETTING

Hammer & Vane runs a single sale across three salerooms at once: London,
New York, and Hong Kong. A single lot goes under the hammer at the same
moment in all three rooms. Floor bidders raise paddles in front of the
auctioneer; phone bidders are relayed by an assistant standing at a desk
with a headset; absentee bids are already on file. Whichever room the
winning bid actually comes from, the house needs one true final price and
one true buyer for that lot, and every room's paperwork has to agree on it
by the time invoices go out.

Each saleroom runs its own desk terminal, wired to a small back-room
machine we're calling "the block." Your job is to write the software that
runs on the block. One per city. Three cities, three blocks,
talking to each other over the same ordinary lines the terminals use.

THE GOLDEN RULE

The auctioneer in London cannot be kept waiting because Hong Kong's line
is slow tonight. If the London desk takes a bid, the London auctioneer
must hear "bid accepted" back immediately - not after New York and Hong
Kong have been told about it, and not after they've acknowledged it. Tell
the other rooms about the bid, certainly, but do it quietly, in the
background, and let the auctioneer get on with the sale regardless of how
long that takes.

A slow or silent room down the line must never be the reason a fast room's
paddle count stalls.

THE DESK TERMINAL

A terminal is any device that can hold open a plain text connection to the
block and send it lines of text, one instruction per line. Assume the desk
might send you a whole burst of instructions stitched together, or might
send you a single instruction one keystroke at a time because the line is
poor tonight - your block has to make sense of either.

The instructions a desk sends:

  PADDLE <number>        register this connection as a bidder's paddle
  BID <amount>           raise a bid
  STANDING               ask what the current highest bid is, and who holds it
  HAMMER                 the auctioneer has closed the lot at this desk

What the block replies:

  PADDLE OK
  BID OK  /  BID NO
  CURRENT <amount> <paddle>
  HAMMER DOWN, SOLD <amount> to <paddle>

A desk that hasn't registered a paddle can't bid. A bid that doesn't beat
the current price is refused, politely, not with a crash.

THE COMPLICATIONS

Business does not wait for the network to be tidy:

- Two rooms can each take what looks, from where they're standing, like
  the new high bid - at the exact same instant, for the exact same
  amount, from two different paddles in two different cities. The house
  has a standing rule for exactly this, written into the conditions of
  sale, and it must produce the same answer no matter which room's
  ledger you read it from afterward: whichever of the two bids carries
  the later reference number, by plain string comparison, is the one
  that stood. Every block must apply this rule identically, without
  needing to ask a person.

- An assistant relaying a phone bid may repeat themselves down a bad
  line, so the same bid can reach a block twice. It must only ever be
  counted once.

- News of a bid can arrive at a block out of the order it actually
  happened in, because one line runs faster than another tonight. The
  block should not assume it heard about bids in the order they occurred
  - it should still land on the right final price regardless of the
  order the news arrived in.

- Hong Kong's line to the other two rooms can drop mid-lot and come back
  five minutes later. While it's down, London and New York carry on
  without it. When it comes back, Hong Kong needs to be brought up to
  the current price on its own, without anyone re-keying anything by
  hand.

- "HAMMER DOWN" only needs to be true for the room that called it. We are
  not asking you to make all three rooms agree on the close of the lot in
  the same instant - that is a harder problem than this brief covers, and
  we want you to notice that it's a limitation and be able to say so, not
  solve it.

WHAT WE WILL ASK YOU TO EXPLAIN

Once it's working, walk us through, in order, everything that happens
inside your program from the moment London's terminal sends "BID 4200"
to the moment New York and Hong Kong both know about it - including what
you did to make sure London's auctioneer never felt Hong Kong's slow
line, and what would go wrong if you'd built it any other way.
